README.md, before:

# Chaotic Schedule

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule/graph/badge.svg?token=GNSG586LG2)](https://codecov.io/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=skywarth_chaotic-schedule&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=skywarth_chaotic-schedule)
[![DeepSource](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule.svg/?label=active+issues&show_trend=true&token=klpu6ClKPxNZm4A8fTPx8fJU)](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule/?ref=repository-badge)
[![DeepSource](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule.svg/?label=resolved+issues&show_trend=true&token=klpu6ClKPxNZm4A8fTPx8fJU)](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule/?ref=repository-badge)

It's a laravel package in development.


## Installation (WIP)

```php
 php artisan vendor:publish --provider "Skywarth\ChaoticSchedule\Providers\ChaoticScheduleServiceProvider" --tag="config"
```

## RNGs

- [Mersenne Twister](https://github.com/ruafozy/php-mersenne-twister)
- [Seed Spring](https://github.com/paragonie/seedspring)
- https://github.com/CiaccoDavide/CiaccoPRNG (*)
- https://github.com/hxtree/pseudorandom (*)

## TODOs

- [ ] PHPDoc comments for methods and classes
- [X] ~~Problem: These damned PRNG doesn't work well with massive seed values.~~
  - [X] ~~Abstract class for RNG adapters to enforce seed format (size, type, etc.)~~
  - [X] ~~New hashing solution for steady flow of seeds (on SeedGenerationService).~~
    - [X] ~~Every method in the service should pass through hashing, `intval` on its own is just poor.~~
- [X] [!] ~~Timezone adaptation, we should utilize timezone macro.~~ (Canceled. Not needed. Laravel handles it)
- [X] Time based macros
  - [X] Random for `->at('15:30')`. Exact singular time.
  - [X] Random for `->hourlyAt(17)`
  - [X] Random for `->dailyAt('13:00')` 
  - [ ] (Skip. Not really necessary) ~~Random for `->twiceDailyAt(1, 13, 15)`~~ 
  - [ ] (Not feasible. What are we going to bind/anchor our seed on ?) ~~Random for **custom** `everyRandomMinutes()`~~
  - [ ] [!] Seeds should be expanded and distinguished.
      Example case: `->days(Schedule::MONDAY,Schedule::FRIDAY,Schedule::SATURDAY)->atRandom('09:00','22:44')`. Otherwise, it doesn't display next due date correctly. Not really a bug but incorrect in terms of informing the user.
      Config for this might be better. `->nextRunDate()` acts up for the `->daily()`.
  - [X] Closure parameters for adjustments and flexibility
  - [X] Determine and indicate boundary inclusivity
- [ ] Date based macros
  - [ ] Random for `->days(Schedule::MONDAY,Schedule::WEDNESDAY,Schedule::FRIDAY)` 
  - [ ] Random for `->weeklyOn(1, '8:00');`
  - [ ] Random for `->monthlyOn(1, '8:00');`
- [X] CI/CD pipeline (build, run tests, maybe auto publish?)
- [ ] Unit tests
  - [X] Time based methods and macros
    - [X] Macro registration assertion
    - [X] Consistency of generated randoms based on seed
    - [X] Unique identifier (parameter and auto)
    - [X] Invalid params (out of range, min-max order, format)
    - [X] Boundaries are respected (min-max values, does the generated time exceed these limits ?)
      - [X] On RNGAdapter
      - [X] On macros
    - [X] Closures

Commit message:

feat: scope and req analysis

README.md, after:

# Chaotic Schedule

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule/graph/badge.svg?token=GNSG586LG2)](https://codecov.io/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=skywarth_chaotic-schedule&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=skywarth_chaotic-schedule)
[![DeepSource](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule.svg/?label=active+issues&show_trend=true&token=klpu6ClKPxNZm4A8fTPx8fJU)](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule/?ref=repository-badge)
[![DeepSource](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule.svg/?label=resolved+issues&show_trend=true&token=klpu6ClKPxNZm4A8fTPx8fJU)](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/skywarth/chaotic-schedule/?ref=repository-badge)

It's a laravel package in development.


## Installation (WIP)

```php
 php artisan vendor:publish --provider "Skywarth\ChaoticSchedule\Providers\ChaoticScheduleServiceProvider" --tag="config"
```

## RNGs

- [Mersenne Twister](https://github.com/ruafozy/php-mersenne-twister)
- [Seed Spring](https://github.com/paragonie/seedspring)
- https://github.com/CiaccoDavide/CiaccoPRNG (*)
- https://github.com/hxtree/pseudorandom (*)

## TODOs

- [ ] PHPDoc comments for methods and classes
- [X] ~~Problem: These damned PRNG doesn't work well with massive seed values.~~
  - [X] ~~Abstract class for RNG adapters to enforce seed format (size, type, etc.)~~
  - [X] ~~New hashing solution for steady flow of seeds (on SeedGenerationService).~~
    - [X] ~~Every method in the service should pass through hashing, `intval` on its own is just poor.~~
- [X] [!] ~~Timezone adaptation, we should utilize timezone macro.~~ (Canceled. Not needed. Laravel handles it)
- [X] Time based macros
  - [X] Random for `->at('15:30')`. Exact singular time.
  - [X] Random for `->hourlyAt(17)`
  - [X] Random for `->dailyAt('13:00')` 
  - [ ] (Skip. Not really necessary) ~~Random for `->twiceDailyAt(1, 13, 15)`~~ 
  - [ ] (Not feasible. What are we going to bind/anchor our seed on ?) ~~Random for **custom** `everyRandomMinutes()`~~
  - [ ] [!] Seeds should be expanded and distinguished.
      Example case: `->days(Schedule::MONDAY,Schedule::FRIDAY,Schedule::SATURDAY)->atRandom('09:00','22:44')`. Otherwise, it doesn't display next due date correctly. Not really a bug but incorrect in terms of informing the user.
      Config for this might be better. `->nextRunDate()` acts up for the `->daily()`.
  - [X] Closure parameters for adjustments and flexibility
  - [X] Determine and indicate boundary inclusivity
- [ ] Date based macros
  - Create an array of the designated days of the week to be selected from.
    Shuffle this array using RNG.
    Based on the requirement (like 2 times a week or 6 times a month), slice the array to get the required number of days.
    Return the selected days.
  - It should enable the following scenarios (times in the following only define date/day based times! It doesn't take time/minute into account.)
    - Once a week, any day of the week
    - Once a week, among wednesday and friday
      - Example: It'll run wednesday this week. (Basically you roll dice each week)
    - Twice a week, among thursday, saturday and monday.
      - Example: It'll run thursday and monday this week
      - Example: It'll run saturday and monday this week
    - 1-3 times this week, on tuesday, wednesday and friday **(need validation so that the times doesn't exceed max possible days)**
      - Example: this week it'll run 2 times, on tuesday and wednesday
      - Example: this week it'll run once, on friday.
    - 2-7 times this week, on any day of the week
      - Example: this week it'll run 5 times on [...]
    - Once a month, on any day of the week
    - 4 times a month, on only odd number of the day of the month (3,7,17,23)
    - 10-20 times a month, on monday, wednesday, thursday and saturday
    - 30 times a year, on monday and wednesday.
    - This one is not easy: 10 times a year, on saturday and sunday, runs should have a buffer span of at least 4 weeks. So it would run at the minimum per 4 weeks.
  - So here's the gatherings so far, analysis:
    - `period` context. Week, month, year...
    - Constraints and limitations: `days of the week` (separate param), `buffer` (Separate param? .what should be the minimum diff between designated runs) ,others (such as running only on odd number days) can be handled via closures hopefully  
    - There is `times`, defining how many times it should run for the given period. It is not related at all with random time schedules.
    - `times` should be validated to not exceed max possible runs for the given period and constraints (day of the weeks etc)
  - [ ] Random for `->days(Schedule::MONDAY,Schedule::WEDNESDAY,Schedule::FRIDAY)` 
  - [ ] Random for `->weeklyOn(1, '8:00');`
  - [ ] Random for `->monthlyOn(1, '8:00');`
- [X] CI/CD pipeline (build, run tests, maybe auto publish?)
- [ ] Unit tests
  - [X] Time based methods and macros
    - [X] Macro registration assertion
    - [X] Consistency of generated randoms based on seed
    - [X] Unique identifier (parameter and auto)
    - [X] Invalid params (out of range, min-max order, format)
    - [X] Boundaries are respected (min-max values, does the generated time exceed these limits ?)
      - [X] On RNGAdapter
      - [X] On macros
    - [X] Closures
